+++
date = "2017-03-10T11:25:12-05:00"
draft = false
title = "Dirty Dozen 2016"

+++

I ran scoring on last year's 2016 Dirty Dozen, mostly as a test for the upcoming 2017 race. For more details about exactly how rankings were computed from Strava, see [Scoring]({{< ref "scoring.md" >}}).

Not surprisingly, there were some differences with the [official Dirty Dozen results](http://www.dannychew.com/dd_16.html#points). Overall, we see almost twice as many people scoring points (female: 12 vs. 7, male: 46 vs. 25 people). This is probably a good thing -- the average rider is engaged and its not all about the top few riders. As anecdotal evidence, two female riders who did not even score in the official DD (Cat Culkin and Rachel Selice) placed in the top 5 according to Strava. There are a couple plausible explanations
for this. Riders may not care about scoring (after all, all the matters is how much fun you have) or underestimate their chance of scoring, and thus not ride in the lead group, not position themselves in the pack to reach the top first or not register as a competitor at all. On the other hand, many riders did not use Strava at all (407 registered riders vs. 222 who completed at least one hill on Strava). The data is too small to draw any real conclusions here, but it would be interesting to look at trends over the past and future years.

Stephanie Sydlik remains the overall female winner, though on the male side we do have Adam beating Ian. Obviously there are a lot of sources of error, perhaps most strikingly is Ian’s suspiciously long time on Rialto (maybe due to a GPS error). Many athletes are missing times on Canton Ave because the segment is so short that GPS does not always pick it up. At this point, we still recommend using the official DD results for competitive riders, but the Strava based results certainly provide better information about the average participant.

<link rel='stylesheet' href='//cdn.datatables.net/1.10.16/css/jquery.dataTables.min.css'>

Female Results
--------------
<table style="display: block; text-align: right; overflow-x: auto; white-space: nowrap" id="female" class="display" cellspacing="0" width="100%">
    <thead style="max-width: 200">
        <tr>
            <th>Name</th>
            <th>Points</th>
            <th>Net Time</th>
            <th>Guyasuta</th>
            <th>Ravine</th>
            <th>Berry</th>
            <th>High</th>
            <th>Logan</th>
            <th>Rialto</th>
            <th>Suffolk</th>
            <th>Sycamore</th>
            <th>Canton</th>
            <th>Boustead</th>
            <th>Welsh</th>
            <th>Barry</th>
            <th>Flowers</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
</table>

Male Results
--------------
<table style="display: block; text-align: right; overflow-x: auto; white-space: nowrap" id="male" class="display" cellspacing="0" width="100%">
    <thead style="max-width: 200">
        <tr>
            <th>Name</th>
            <th>Points</th>
            <th>Net Time</th>
            <th>Guyasuta</th>
            <th>Ravine</th>
            <th>Berry</th>
            <th>High</th>
            <th>Logan</th>
            <th>Rialto</th>
            <th>Suffolk</th>
            <th>Sycamore</th>
            <th>Canton</th>
            <th>Boustead</th>
            <th>Welsh</th>
            <th>Barry</th>
            <th>Flowers</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
</table>



